so hi everybody today I thought I would
do a video on my revision tips for GCSE
and a-level for those of you who are new
I'm Paige
I study at the University of Cambridge
and I do physical Natural Sciences so
basically I've gone through GCSEs I've
gone through a levels I speak from
experience and I thought why not kind of
let other people know how I revised and
how you can get aids and a stars at GCSE
and a-level what I want to stress in
this video is that it is possible to
transform your grades through hard work
and just being pretty strict with
yourself and determination pure
determination I honestly think that I've
managed to succeed in exams through
being so determined that I will succeed
when I started off like my a levels for
example I wasn't getting hazed nay
stands on my marks I was getting DS the
same same with GCSE I just revised a lot
to get myself up to the standard that I
was aiming for so yeah don't be
disheartened don't give up already you
can do it bit of motivation here I
believe in you so believe in yourself so
tip number one is to start revising now
as in February coz exams are creeping up
like they start in May that's like three
months time literally you've got just in
two three months not to panic you this
this video is not just stressed people
out this is a revising get started let's
get this great grade kind of video you
know this is the sort of time to be
thinking about getting that revision
kick-started start reviewing everything
you've been doing so far in whatever
subject you do especially for GCC the
volume of information you need to know
is crazy like they make you do what ten
eleven subjects and you need to have
that all in your head by the time May
comes around
you need to get going now if you haven't
started already
please start now none of this like I'm
gonna start after Easter I'll start
revising then or like none of my friends
have started revising I don't care what
your friends are doing start now
honestly the last-minute cramming is not
worth it trust me
the stress of last-minute cramming ohh
ohh
don't do it to yourself commit this
stuff to long-term memory and you'll be
fine just think you could be really
children exam day everyone else could be
stressing me out and you're gonna be
there like yeah huh revise this in
February I know this stuff just you wait
so my second tip is to make flashcards
these are a couple of my available
flashcards for physics and chemistry a
levels but they'd work for other science
subjects or any other subjects where you
need to remember stuff which is
basically every subject so flashcards
are amazing honestly I went a little bit
flashcard crazy for GCSEs and a-levels
not gonna lie to you like this is one
pad yeah I had four of these for each
saleable subject I had maybe two of
these for each GCSE subject as you might
imagine I spent a long time making them
but the making process is just as
important if not more important than
going through them because I found as I
was writing out all this stuff I needed
to remember it would go in as you write
it out I really tried to condense all my
notes from class from my revision guides
from the textbooks try to condense it
all into one all into these flashcards
and then I purely use these flashcards
from then on these were my source of all
information I need to know for exams
honestly they were great I got my flash
cards from Wilco they're a pound per
pack
they come for this amazing little ring
like who needs Treasury tags when you've
got this little really flexible they're
just all round great flashcards so worth
it
some people say I'm weird I wrote the
detailed stuff on the non line side
because I like to flip the movement that
way okay yeah people read I need to know
that page anyway just make flashcards
those are flash cards and you've go with
all your friends as well I remember
sitting in my GCSE classes and the
lead-up to exams and we just passed the
flashcards between each other we'd work
in pairs and just go over them and it
was honestly it's so useful it really
tested you and checked if you knew knew
your stuff now is the stage when you
should be making those flashcards so
that when it gets closer to exams you
can just be going over them every day
and if you're really strict with
yourself even if you only go for a few
each day you'll get through the pack
fairly quickly
I am also currently fat coding for my
university stuff now so cards have not
left me I love them very very very much
so tip number three is to use revision
guides and textbooks to focus your
revision at GCC I mostly used revision
guides whereas ailable
I mostly used textbooks I just found the
the CTP revision guides for GCC were
excellent
honestly in most subjects they had
everything he needs to know the of
little joke and the corner made you
revision a bit more entertaining I
really liked them because they just made
everything nice and clear and concise
and it kind of cut out the waffle that
you often got in GCSE textbooks yeah
they were great i base like everything I
wrote in my flashcards of those revision
guides and I used them as like a last
minute skim over thing to read before
exams so when it got to a level I did
have revision guides I didn't use them
as much admittedly I actually used the
textbooks for my a level course more
which I got at my college library and
also I believe
sometimes the textbooks are online I
used caboodle which is for OCR text
books which I have online which was
really useful because it didn't have to
look a big massive book around but
either way you can get them at the
library or online or if worse comes to
worse you can buy them as well on Amazon
there was like lots of useful questions
that practice questions in the textbooks
that are really good so yeah definitely
use those resources they have lots of
what you need to know so tip number four
is do as many pass papers as possible
literally go crazy go through all the
years go through all the past papers as
many as you can and make sure you do
them under timed conditions there's no
point doing a pass paper and being like
oh hey I got 100% yay get me having
spent like three hours doing it if the
paper is only like an hour long for
example like in the actual exam you are
not going to have that I for one
struggled with timing through GCSEs
through a levels now I still struggle
with timing it's something I need to
sort out so keep two timed conditions
please please please PLEASE future me
talking to myself here keep the time
conditions cuz stress is not worth it
after my final chemistry a level exam I
came out literally devastated because I
mucked up the timing so bad I did about
two-thirds of the paper and that was
down to doing not enough passed papers
under time to conditions and you want to
replicate the exam kind of atmosphere as
much as possible if I don't stress over
it but you need to see how you would
actually perform in the real thing
make sure you've revised a bit
beforehand gone over your flashcards or
done your mind maps whichever floats
your boat and then do the past papers
and see how much you actually know
definitely mark as you go along so you
can kind of crack yourself don't like do
a ton and then mark at the end because
then there's no point because you don't
learn as you go you'll keep making the
same mistake again again if you do five
plus papers in the right
and then mark then you'd be like I made
the same mistake in all five or if you
catch it the first one you can improve
for the second one so the marking
process is also really important don't
just get your teacher to market make
sure you actually try marking yourself
some people will say oh learn the mark
seems I'm not sure how how that would
work I mean I supposed to get a very
similar question you could learn the
mark schemes but I think it's just good
to see the kind of points they want you
to put in an answer around a particular
topic I don't get more schemes anymore
and I'm quite frankly a little bit lost
without them but what can you do if you
want make yourself a timetable if I'm
you're gonna do pass papers if you do
like just a few per week if you actually
you'll get through them all and you're
gonna be in a really great set you're
gonna be ready for exams so tip number
five is get rid of all distractions when
you're revising I am the worst for going
on my phone so much when revising I have
it there sitting next to me and like
I'll say crow right page you're not
gonna go on that I do not know what is
wrong with me I think I have something
seriously I've got this draw to my phone
like two minutes in I'll find myself
suddenly picking up a girl let's just
check Facebook no don't check Facebook
chase book what must have changed in the
last two minutes you need to know this
stuff for your exams ah it's just don't
go in your phone don't go on your laptop
don't get rid of all distractions put
them in a separate room another form of
distraction is other people your friends
I find to be honest that I most
effectively revise when I am by myself
in a focused environment group study yes
can be really useful really helpful but
all the time group studying is not going
to help you you're gonna end up chatting
more and not doing as much work it's
literally inevitable because let's face
it you're gonna start chatting about how
your day was what you up to tomorrow it
didn't weekend
no this is not a socializing time this
is studying for exams don't get me wrong
take breaks make sure you do have fun
see your friends don't live in a hole in
your room revising the whole time
because that's not healthy but you need
to make sure you do the time you set for
a revision use for revision definitely
revise by yourself first then assess
things you're not sure about things you
want to discuss organise a bit of a
group study search so I think I've kind
of covered the five key things that I
used to do and still do to this day when
revising for any exams I've got coming
up basically just don't stress out it's
not worth stressing out over work hard
and I'm sure you can do it I believe you
can do it you should believe you can do
it they're not the be-all and end-all
so yeah just honestly just go for it go
for it give it your all and then you
could have a nice relaxing summer
afterwards just think I can't wait for
summer once exams are over summer is
going to be great just look forward to
that summer but get revising now not now
is a good time to start revising make
sure you're reviewing everything and
yeah I wish you all very good luck with
your revision and yeah with exams I hope
they all go well for you and that you
get the grades you are aiming for and
yeah I will see you soon with another
video if this was helpful make sure to
LIKE so I know and subscribe down below
I often do lots of logs of my time at
Cambridge and you know I've got lots of
other videos planned so it should be
good see you soon bye